---
author: koalalorenzo
comments: true
date: 2014-09-16 08:32:08+00:00
layout: post
slug: bitcoin-xapo-debit-card
title: 'My Bitcoin Experience: Wallets and Debit Card'
wordpress_id: 18433
categories:
- Decentralized
tags:
- bitcoin
- coinbase
- linux
- innovazione
- opensource
- p2p
- progetti
- socialnetwork
- credit
- debit
- money
- xapo
---

I am in the world of bitcoin since 2012 when I opened my first bitcoin wallet on [blockchain.info](https://blockchain.info/it/wallet/)... and a lot of things **changed** since that moment: new **services**, growing **communities**, new alternative crypto currencies, **ATMs**, Credit-Debit cards, and a larger diffusion of people accepting bitcoin in their shops.

{%
  include image.html
  img="images/2015/bitcoin.jpg"
%}

After those two years I can see a better view of what Bitcoin means to me and the innovation behind that technology, including [Xapo](http://xapo.com/r/AT5712D) debit card... and some of my friends are tired of me talking about bitcoins :)



## How I choose a wallet



Using simple words: the wallet is a **collection of addresses** and their private keys. The address, that is used to **receive the money**, is a group of letters and numbers generated by the private key, that is required to **send money**.

Because you **must** have the **private key** of your address in order to **sing a transaction**, the **security** level where this value is stored must be high. The default bitcoin client provides a wallet, but is really slow and it must be synchronized and it will take some days... <!--more-->

The smartest solution is to generate a **Paper Wallet**: it is a single address and its private key printed on a piece of paper, exactly like a printed dollar, you can receive the money you need on the address, and use the private key only when you have to perform payments. There are other [cool products](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Hardware_wallet) like [Trezor](https://buytrezor.com)... but you must have a lot of BTC in order to need that level of security.

I am using [Coinbase](http://coinbase.com) and [Xapo](http://xapo.com/) as main services to store my bitcoin online: Is really hard to trust some of those services and my choice is based on how **funds** they have and how **many people trusted them**. On Crunchbase I discovered that **Coinbase** during the last years received [31.7 Million Dollars from 14 investors](http://www.crunchbase.com/organization/coinbase), but **Xapo** got [$60 Million from 12 smart guys](http://www.crunchbase.com/organization/xapo). This is enough for me to understand the _power_ they have also to survive in case of big problems... **Xapo** for example, is **insured** and they have a beautiful [mobile wallet](https://xapo.com/wallet/) for iOS and Android!



## Xapo Debit Card



From my point of view, the most valuable question of Bitcoin is connected to our every day life. **Is it going to change our habits?** My everyday life is not changed a bit since I started using the **Xapo debit card**. Since I received and I activated it, it was working exactly as **any other debit card** I have.

The same day I went to the [7 eleven](https://www.7-eleven.com) and I bought two sweet pieces of the traditional "danish bakery" for just 25 DKK... and I decided to pay using BTC. The transaction was just **1-2 seconds slower** than the normal... I was so excited and when "payment approved" appeared on the screen of the terminal my little geeky child in me fainted. It was working exactly like any other debit card, **but with Bitcoin**. WoW! :)





{%
  include image.html
  img="images/2015/scontrino.jpg"
%}




So, while I was eating the amazing [Winerbrød](/images/2015/win.jpg), I checked the balance on the **Xapo** [mobile wallet](https://xapo.com/wallet/) (the iOS native app), just be sure that everything was working fine. I received instantly the payment on my account, and my 25 DKK had been converted into 0.009 BTC. I was so excited and happy that **my friends started ignoring me** because I was talking too much about bitcoin! :P



## The real problem behind bitcoin



From my point of view, the big **problem** of Bitcoin is connected to the **complexity of the system**, but more than a solution is there to solve it. The bitcoin is still **not changing our life** because if we try to use the payment protocol as it is in our daily life, it will be really **painful**. **Litecoin** is the second biggest crypto currency available and "fixed" some of the problems of the bitcoin network, but it is still not the best solution I've found.

Every transaction **takes from 10 minutes to even 1 hour** to be _confirmed_ 6 times. This means that if I want to buy something in a small shop using **directly** my bitcoin wallet, I have to **wait 10 minutes** or more. The solution used by **Xapo** is really interesting and solves this problem: using the **Visa network** to connect my bitcoin wallet to my **debit card** I can perform payments as I am used to: instantly. The merchant does not receive bitcoin, but the currency he required using the terminal. This is a big step for the bitcoin world, but is not the best solution to the problem: the merchant does not even know about bitcoin and this is **not increasing the real use of it**.

I also was considering that in emergency cases, like a **war** or just like if electricity or **internet is missing**. In those cases, we cannot use bitcoin as any other payment system. But this is a concept and I know that probably another **open source alternative** crypto currency is there to solve this problem. :)

Anyway, The good news is that I know that my mother knows about bitcoin, even if she does not need to use them.
